.TH helios 7 "June 2022"
.SH NAME
Helios - An intelligent music recommendation platform.

.SH SYNOPSIS
Helios is an intelligent music recommendation platform.

.SH DESCRIPTION
Helios consists of several pieces of software. The \fBhelios-extractor\fR
utility performs the acoustic analysis of your music collection. It is generally
operated from the system cron job \fBhelios-extractor-cron\fR, but can be used
directly.

The \fBhelios-similar\fR utility can be used to find similar music in your
collection to a given one. Although the similar music must have been previously
analyzed and stored within your database with \fBhelios-extractor\fR, the given
song need not be.

The \fBheliosd\fR system service provides an embedded HTTP server which exports
a RESTful API. The API can be used for adding, removing, and analyzing new music
in the catalogue; similarity matching; and playlist generation. The server and
its API can be used as the basis for powerful web based applications built on
top of the Helios platform.

The \fBhelios-add-song\fR(1), \fBhelios-delete-song\fR(1),
\fBhelios-download-song\fR(1), \fBhelios-find-servers\fR(1),
\fBhelios-get-song\fR(1), \fBhelios-import-songs\fR(1),
\fBhelios-modify-song\fR(1), \fBhelios-similar\fR(1), and \fBhelios-status\fR(1)
utilities are all provided by the \fIhelios-client-utilities\fR package; the
\fBheliosd\fR(1) daemon by the \fIhelios-server\fR package; the database
backend by the \fIhelios-database-local\fR package; and the pure Python client
API module by the \fIpython3-helios-client\fR package.

All of the utilities that ship with the \fIhelios-client-utilities\fR package
were written in Python using the \fIpython3-helios-client\fR module. They can
serve as examples on how to use the Python client module to get Helios
integrated into your platform as quickly as possible.

.SH AUTHOR
Cartesian Theatre <info@cartesiantheatre.com>

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to Cartesian Theatre <info@cartesiantheatre.com>.

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2015-2022 Cartesian Theatre. All rights reserved.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBheliosd\fR(1)
.br
\fBhelios-add-song\fR(1)
.br
\fBhelios-delete-song\fR(1)
.br
\fBhelios-download-song\fR(1)
.br
\fBhelios-find-servers\fR(1)
.br
\fBhelios-get-song\fR(1)
.br
\fBhelios-import-songs\fR(1)
.br
\fBhelios-modify-song\fR(1)
.br
\fBhelios-provision-magnatune\fR(1)
.br
\fBhelios-similar\fR(1)
.br
\fBhelios-status\fR(1)
.br

\fIhttps://www.heliosmusic.io\fR
.br

