\O0
.TH helios-client-utilities-common 7 "April 2024"
.SH NAME
helios-client-utilities-common - Common command line switches
\O1

.TP
\fB\--api-key="<key>"\fR
Depending on the configuration of the server, any client requests may require a
client API key to be submitted. Defaults to none.

.TP
\fB\--host="<host|ip>"\fR
Specify the host name or IP address of the server. If not provided, your local
area network will be probed via zeroconf until it a Helios server is found. In
that event the host, port, and encryption support will be automatically detected
and override any command line settings.

.TP
\fB\--port="<port>"\fR
Specify the port the server is listening on. Defaults to 6440.

.TP
\fB\--timeout-connect="<seconds>"\fR
Number of seconds before a connect request times out. Defaults to 15 seconds.

.TP
\fB\--timeout-read="<seconds>"\fR
Number of seconds before a read times out. Defaults to 300 seconds. Increase for embedded systems with low horse power.

.TP
\fB\--tls-disabled\fR
Disable encryption. By default encryption is enabled.

.TP
\fB\--tls-ca-file="<file>"\fR
When encryption is enabled, verify Helios server's certificate is signed by the
given certificate authority.

.TP
\fB\--tls-certificate="<file>"\fR
When encryption is enabled, use this public key. Use with the corresponding
\fB\--tls-key\fR switch.

.TP
\fB\--tls-key="<file>"\fR
When encryption is enabled, use this private key. Use with the corresponding
\fB\--tls-certificate\fR switch.

.TP
\fB\--verbose\fR
Be verbose by showing additional information.

.TP
\fB\--version\fR
Show version of utility.

.TP
\fB\-h\fR \fB\--help\fR
Show this help.
