.TH helios-get-song 1 "May 2021"
.SH NAME
helios-get-song - Query metadata for a song within a remote Helios server.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B helios-get-song [\fIOPTIONS\fR] [--all | --id="<song_id>" | --reference="<song_reference>" ]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Use this utility to retrieve metadata for a song that has been submitted for
analysis into a remote Helios server. The results will be output in JSON
format.

If you instead are trying to download the actual file itself, you probably
should be looking at \fBhelios-download-song\fR(1). Or if you want to
manipulate the database's metadata, see \fBhelios-modify-song\fR(1).

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\--all\fR
Retrieve metadata for all songs. You must provide exactly one of --id,
--reference, --all, or --random.

.TP
\fB\--id="<song_id>"\fR
Unique numeric identifier of song to query. You must provide exactly one of
--id, --reference, --all, or --random.

.TP
\fB\--paginate="<size>"\fR
Number of results to buffer and show before pausing for user. By default there
is no pause.

.TP
\fB\--random="<size>"\fR
Randomly select <size> songs to retrieve from the catalogue. The <size> must be
greater than or equal to 1 and no greater than the total number of songs in the
catalogue. You must provide exactly one of --id, --reference, --all, or
--random.

.TP
\fB\--reference="<song_reference>"\fR
Unique reference of song to query. You must provide exactly one of --id,
--reference, --all, or --random.

.so man7/helios-client-utilities-common.7

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Retrieve metadata for a song with reference "aaa":

$ helios-get-song --reference "aaa"

Get a random song:

$ helios-get-song --random=1

.SH EXIT STATUS
\fBhelios-get-song\fR exits with a status of zero if the server provided the expected response or 1 otherwise.

.SH AUTHOR
Cartesian Theatre <info@cartesiantheatre.com>

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to Cartesian Theatre <info@cartesiantheatre.com>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2015-2021 Cartesian Theatre. All rights reserved.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBhelios\fR(7)
.br
\fBhelios-download-song\fR(1)
.br
\fBhelios-modify-song\fR(1)
.br
\fIhttps://www.heliosmusic.io\fR

