.TH helios-delete-song 1 "June 2022"
.SH NAME
helios-delete-song - Delete a remote song or songs on a Helios server.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B helios-delete-song [--id="<song_id>" | --reference="<song_reference>" | --delete-all] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Use this utility to delete a remote database record of a song from a Helios
server. The song's file will also be deleted from the server if it had its own
copy.

If you just want to delete the remote file but keep the database record, you
probably want to use \fBhelios-modify-song\fR(1) instead.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\--delete-all\fR
Delete on the remote server all song metadata and song files. Be careful. This
is a dangerous option. You will be prompted with a warning prior to performing
the operation.

.TP
\fB\--delete-file-only\fR
Delete on the remote server the stored song file, but keep preserve the metadata
of the analyzed. You may use this in tandem with \fB\--delete-all\fR.

.TP
\fB\--id\fR
Unique numeric identifier of song to delete. You must provide either this or a
\fB--reference\fR if you are not deleting all songs.

.TP
\fB\--reference="<song_reference>"\fR
Unique reference of song to delete. You must provide either this or an \fB--id\fR if you are not deleting all songs.

.so man7/helios-client-utilities-common.7

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP

Delete all songs on the remote server:

$ helios-delete-song --delete-all
.TP

Delete song with reference "some_song_reference":

$ helios-delete-song --reference "some_song_reference"

.SH EXIT STATUS
\fBhelios-delete-song\fR exits with a status of zero if the server provided the expected response or 1 otherwise.

.SH AUTHOR
Cartesian Theatre <info@cartesiantheatre.com>

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to Cartesian Theatre <info@cartesiantheatre.com>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2015-2022 Cartesian Theatre. All rights reserved.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBhelios\fR(7)
.br
\fBhelios-add-song\fR(1)
.br
\fIhttps://www.heliosmusic.io\fR
.br

