.TH helios-download-song 1 "May 2021"
.SH NAME
helios-download-song - Download a song from a remote Helios server.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B helios-download-song [\fIOPTIONS\fR] [--id="<song_id>" | --reference="<song_reference>" ] --output="<file>"

.SH DESCRIPTION
Use this utility to download a song from a remote Helios server. This can be
only be done if the \fRstore\fB policy was set to \fBtrue\fR when the song was
initially submitted to the server for analysis. By default it is.

If you only want to fetch the song's metadata instead of the file itself, you
probably should be looking at \fBhelios-get-song\fR(1).

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\--id="<song_id>"\fR
Unique numeric identifier of song to modify. You must provide either this or a
--reference.

.TP
\fB\--reference="<song_reference>"\fR
Unique reference of song to modify. You must provide either this or an
\fB--id\fR.

.TP
\fB\-o "<file>" --output="<file>"\fR
Write out song to disk with the given file name.

.so man7/helios-client-utilities-common.7

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Download a song with reference "aaa":

$ helios-download-song --reference "aaa" --output some_song.flac

.SH EXIT STATUS
\fBhelios-download-song\fR exits with a status of zero if the server provided the expected response or 1 otherwise.

.SH AUTHOR
Cartesian Theatre <info@cartesiantheatre.com>

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to Cartesian Theatre <info@cartesiantheatre.com>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2015-2021 Cartesian Theatre. All rights reserved.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBhelios\fR(7)
.br
\fBhelios-get-song\fR(1)
.br
\fIhttps://www.heliosmusic.io\fR
.br

