.TH helios-similar 1 "May 2021"
.SH NAME
helios-similar - Search for similar songs on a remote Helios server.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B helios-similar [\fIOPTIONS\fR] [--file="<file>" | --url="<url>" | --id="<id>" | --reference="<reference>"]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Use this utility to have a remote Helios server perform a similarity match
within its catalogue of analyzed music using a given song as a search key. The
results will be output in JSON format.

The search key is a song which can be either internal to the server's catalogue
or external. If the former you must specify which song to select from the
database with either an --id or a --reference.

If the song is external you must supply either a --file or a --url. The former
submits a song file. The latter submits a song at a given URL hosted on
Bandcamp, Mixcloud, SoundCloud, Vimeo, YouTube, or any of the numerous other
supported external services.

All songs used as external search keys are not stored on the server after their
analysis. They are streamed into the server's temporary storage and then
immediately deleted after analysis.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\--file="<file>"\fR
Path to a local song file to use as a search key on the server. This performs
the query using an external search key. You must provide exactly one of --file,
--id, --reference, or --url.

.TP
\fB\--id="<song_id>"\fR
Unique numeric identifier of song already within the database to use as a search
key. You must provide exactly one of --file, --id, --reference, or --url.

.TP
\fB\--results="<size>"\fR
Maximum number of similarity results to return. Default is ten.

.TP
\fB\--reference="<song_reference>"\fR
Unique reference of song already within the database to use as a search key.
You must provide exactly one of --file, --id, --reference, or --url.

.TP
\fB\--same-genre\fR
Limit similarity matches to only those matching the internal search key's genre.
Note that you can only use this when using an internal search key (e.g. you are
using --id or --reference) because external search keys are more likely to have
an unreliable genre metadata.

.TP
\fB\--short\fR
Display results in short form without any JSON as simply "Artist - Title" format.

.TP
\fB\--url="<url>"\fR
URL of a song hosted on any of a number of supported external services to use as
a search key on the server. These include Bandcamp, Mixcloud, SoundCloud, Vimeo,
and YouTube among many others. You must provide exactly one of --file, --id,
--reference, or --url.

.so man7/helios-client-utilities-common.7

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
$ helios-similar --url "https://emika-official.bandcamp.com/track/battles"

.TP
$ helios-similar --file "Emika - Battles.flac"

.TP
$ helios-similar --id 1773

.SH EXIT STATUS
\fBhelios-similar\fR exits with a status of zero if the server provided the expected response or 1 otherwise.

.SH AUTHOR
Cartesian Theatre <info@cartesiantheatre.com>

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to Cartesian Theatre <info@cartesiantheatre.com>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2015-2021 Cartesian Theatre. All rights reserved.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBhelios\fR(7)
.br
\fBhelios-get-song\fR(1)
.br
\fIhttps://www.heliosmusic.io\fR

