.TH helios-modify-song 1 "May 2021"
.SH NAME
helios-modify-song - Tool to edit metadata of remote songs already analyzed on a Helios server.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B helios-modify-song [--id="<song_id>" | --reference="<song_reference>"] [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Use this utility to manipulate metadata of songs already analyzed by a Helios
server. You can do things like change the artist name or delete the server's
local copy of the song to save space as examples.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\--delete-file\fR
Delete remote file if it was stored on server, but keep the database records.
This is sometimes helpful if your server doesn't need to store a local copy of
the song after analysis.

.TP
\fB\--edit-<field>="<new_value>"\fR
Modify \fB<field>\fR of the song stored on the server to \fB<new_value>\fR. The
former can be any of \fBalbum\fR, \fBartist\fR, \fBbeats-per-minute\fR,
\fBfile\fR, \fBgenre\fR, \fBisrc\fR, \fBreference\fR, \fBtitle\fR, or
\fByear\fR.

.TP
\fB\--id\fR
Unique numeric identifier of song to modify. You must provide either this or a
\fB--reference\fR.

.TP
\fB\--no-store\fR
Delete the song on the server immediately after analysis. Defaults to store.

.TP
\fB\--reference="<song_reference>"\fR
Unique reference of song to modify. You must provide either this or an
\fB--id\fR.

.TP
\fB\--store\fR
Store the song after analysis on the server. Defaults to true.

.so man7/helios-client-utilities-common.7

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP

Change the artist and title of song with reference "some_song_reference":

$ helios-modify-song --reference "some_song_reference" --edit-artist "some artist" --edit-title "some title"

.SH EXIT STATUS
\fBhelios-modify-song\fR exits with a status of zero if the server provided the expected response or 1 otherwise.

.SH AUTHOR
Cartesian Theatre <info@cartesiantheatre.com>

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to Cartesian Theatre <info@cartesiantheatre.com>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2015-2021 Cartesian Theatre. All rights reserved.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBhelios\fR(7)
.br
\fBhelios-add-song\fR(1)
.br
\fIhttps://www.heliosmusic.io\fR
.br

