.TH helios-add-song 1 "June 2019"
.SH NAME
helios-add-song - Add a single song to a Helios server's catalogue.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B helios-add-song --reference="<song_reference>" [\fIOPTIONS\fR] file

.SH DESCRIPTION
Use this utility to add a single song to a Helios server's catalogue.

If you are looking to batch import many songs at once you should probably take a
look at \fBhelios-import-songs\fR(1) instead.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\--file="<path>"\fR
Path to the local song file to upload.

.TP
\fB\--no-store\fR
Delete the song on the server immediately after analysis. Defaults to store.

.TP
\fB\--id="<song_id>"\fR
Unique numeric identifier of song to modify. You must provide either this or a
--reference.

.TP
\fB\--reference="<song_reference>"\fR
Unique reference of song to modify. You must provide either this or an
\fB--id\fR.

.TP
\fB\--store\fR
Store the song after analysis on the server. Defaults to store.

.so man7/helios-client-utilities-common.7

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP

Add a song to a Helios server running locally:

$ helios-add-song --reference "some_song_reference" some_song.flac
.TP
Do the same, but with a remote host on a custom port and requiring an API key:

$ helios-add-song --host=192.168.1.22 --port=3233 --key <key>  --reference "some_song_reference" some_song.flac

.SH EXIT STATUS
\fBhelios-add-song\fR exits with a status of zero if the server provided the expected response or 1 otherwise.

.SH AUTHOR
Cartesian Theatre <info@cartesiantheatre.com>

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to Cartesian Theatre <info@cartesiantheatre.com>

.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2015-2019 Cartesian Theatre. All rights reserved.

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBhelios\fR(7)
.br
\fBhelios-import-songs\fR(1)
.br
\fIhttps://www.heliosmusic.io\fR
.br

