.TH helios-learn 1 "April 2024"
.SH NAME
helios-learn - Perform Helios supervised machine learning related tasks.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B helios-learn <\fIACTION\fR> [\fIOPTIONS\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Use this utility to perform various machine learning related tasks that improve
the performance of your Helios server.

The user provides a set of learning examples, or "triplets". Each triplet
consists of three song references. These are an anchor, positive, and a negative
example together as a tuple. Generally the more triplet learning examples, the
better Helios will perform after training.

An anchor is an arbitrary song. The positive is a song that you think is similar
to the anchor. The negative is a song which you think is less similar to the
anchor than the positive is. Songs are identified by their song reference and
not ID.

By way of example you might have a song from Louis Armstrong as an anchor, Ella
Fitzgerald as a positive, and something from Radiohead as a negative.

This form of contrastive learning requires a weak form of supervision because
the user need not provide an exact measure of similarity between songs. They
need only provide a relative order of similarity.

.SH ACTION

.TP
\fBadd\fR
Add a learning example to be used when training. This requires an --anchor,
--positive, and --negative song references to specify the triplet.

.TP
\fBcreate-catalogue\fR \fB<session.hts>\fR \fB<master.csv>\fR \fB<output.csv>\fR
.br
[\fB--output-music-dir=<copy_path>\fR]
.br
[\fB--output-prefix-dir=<prefix_path>\fR]
.br
[\fB--ignore-orphaned-references\fR]
.br
Use this action to generate a subset of a music catalogue limited only to those
songs a user listened to in their training session \fBsession.hts\fR. Each
song is cross referenced from a \fBmaster.csv\fR CSV file which should contain
a superset of the songs the user listened to. The new subset catalogue will be
output to \fBoutput.csv\fR.

The user can optionally have the music the training session user listened to
copied into a directory specified by \fBcopy_path\fR if the
\fB--output-music-dir\fR was specified. If it is not, only the output CSV file
will be generated without copying any songs anywhere.

If the user optionally provides \fB--output-prefix-dir\fR then every song's
\fB'path'\fR CSV column field in the \fBoutput.csv\fR will substitute
\fBprefix_path\fR for its leading path preceeding its file name. This is
sometimes useful if the music is being copied into a temporary staging area that
will not be its final location when referenced later from the \fBoutput.csv\fR.

If \fB--ignore-orphaned-references\fR is specified then references to songs that
the user listened to in their training session but that could not be located in
the \fBmaster.csv\fR CSV file will be treated as warnings rather than errors.
Otherwise the shell exit code will signal failure if there are any orphaned song
references found.

The CSV files are expected to be in the same format as that described in
\fBhelios-import(1)\fR.

.TP
\fBdelete\fR
Delete a learning example triplet stored on the server that was awaiting
training. This requires an --anchor, --positive, and --negative song references
to specify the triplet.

.TP
\fBexamine\fR \fB<session.hts>\fR
Examine a user's Helios training session (.hts) and display information about
the file.

.TP
\fBimport\fR \fB<session.hts>\fR
Import learning example triplets from a Helios training session (.hts) stored on
disk. You can generate one of these files through the interactive GUI provided
by \fBhelios-trainer(1)\fR.

.TP
\fBlist\fR
List all learning example triplets stored on the server awaiting training.

.TP
\fBpurge\fR
Delete all learning examples stored on the server.

.TP
\fBsummary\fR
Show a summary of learning examples awaiting training on your server.

.TP
\fBtrain\fR
Request the server perform machine learning based on available learning
examples.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\fB\--anchor="<song_reference>"\fR
Specify an arbitrary song in your catalogue by reference.

.TP
\fB\--positive="<song_reference>"\fR
Specify a song in your catalogue by reference. This song will be used as an
example of a song more similar to the anchor than the negative.

.TP
\fB\--negative="<song_reference>"\fR
Specify a song in your catalogue by reference. This song will be used as the
negative example to which the positive is more similar to the anchor than the
negative.

.so man7/helios-client-utilities-common.7

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP

Add a learning example to the server where <anchor>, <positive>, and <negative> refer to song references for the anchor, positive, and negative examples:

$ helios-learn add --anchor=<anchor> --positive=<positive> --negative=<negative>

.TP
Remove a learning example:

$ helios-learn delete --anchor=<anchor> --positive=<positive> --negative=<negative>

.TP
Remove all learning examples:

$ helios-learn purge

.TP
Generate a minimal CSV catalogue temp/subset.csv from a user's training session bob_training_session.hts by locating songs within a master CSV catalogue magnatune.csv and copying those songs into temp/music, substituting each song's leading path in the output CSV with a new one:

$ helios-learn create-catalogue bob_training_session.hts magnatune.csv temp/subset.csv --output-music-dir temp/music --output-prefix-dir /usr/share/helios-minimal-catalogue/music

.SH EXIT STATUS
\fBhelios-learn\fR exits with a status of zero if there were no problems, one
otherwise.

.SH AUTHOR
Cartesian Theatre <info@cartesiantheatre.com>

.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to https://github.com/cartesiantheatre/helios-client-utilities/issues.

.so man7/helios-client-utilities-legal.7

.SH SEE ALSO
\fBhelios\fR(7)
.br
\fBhelios-import-songs\fR(1)
.br
\fBhelios-provision-magnatune\fR(1)
.br
\fBhelios-trainer\fR(1)
.br
\fIhttps://www.heliosmusic.io\fR
.br

